.Dd May 4, 2026
.Dt BUILDGOAPPLICATION 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm buildGoApplication
.Nd build a Go application from source and a gomod2nix lockfile
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Brq Ar attrs
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a Nix builder function that compiles a Go application using a
.Pa gomod2nix.toml
lockfile to vendor module sources.
It is exported from
.Pa overlay.nix
into
.Va pkgs
and can also be obtained via
.Pa flake.nix
as
.Va legacyPackages.${system}.buildGoApplication .
.Pp
The function takes a single attribute set and forwards every
unrecognized attribute to nixpkgs's
.Sy stdenv.mkDerivation ,
so any standard derivation attribute
.Pq Sy patches , Sy postInstall , ...
also works.
.Sh ARGUMENTS
.Bl -tag -width "allowGoReference"
.It Sy modules
Path to
.Pa gomod2nix.toml .
Default:
.Pa pwd + "/gomod2nix.toml" .
.It Sy src
Path to sources.
Default:
.Sy pwd .
.It Sy pwd
Path to working directory.
Default:
.Dv null .
.It Sy go
The Go compiler to use.
Auto-selected from the
.Sy go
directive of
.Pa go.mod
when omitted.
.It Sy subPackages
Build only these specific sub-packages.
.It Sy allowGoReference
Allow references to the Go compiler in the output closure.
Default:
.Dv false .
.It Sy tags
List of build tags forwarded to the Go compiler.
Default:
.Ql [ ] .
.It Sy ldflags
List of
.Sy -ldflags
forwarded to the Go compiler.
Default:
.Ql [ ] .
Auto-injected version and commit ldflags are prepended; caller-supplied
entries here take precedence because Go honors the last
.Sy -X
for a given symbol.
See
.Sx VERSION INJECTION
below.
.It Sy commit
Git commit SHA baked into the binary via
.Sy -X main.commit=<commit> .
Default:
.Ql src.rev or src.shortRev or "unknown" .
See
.Sx VERSION INJECTION .
.It Sy nativeBuildInputs
Additional packages to include in the build derivation.
Default:
.Ql [ ] .
.El
.Pp
All other attributes are passed verbatim to
.Sy stdenv.mkDerivation .
.Sh VERSION INJECTION
.Nm
automatically prepends two entries to
.Sy ldflags :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
-X main.version=<version>
-X main.commit=<commit>
.Ed
.Pp
For these values to surface inside the binary, declare matching
.Sy var
blocks in the
.Sy main
package:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
var (
    version = "dev"
    commit  = "unknown"
)
.Ed
.Pp
The defaults make it obvious when a binary was built outside of Nix.
.Ss Default resolution
.Bl -tag -width "version"
.It Sy version
Resolves from the
.Sy version
argument passed to
.Nm .
If absent, falls back to the version recorded in
.Pa gomod2nix.toml
when building from a
.Sy goPackagePath ,
otherwise
.Ql dev .
.It Sy commit
Resolves from
.Sy src.rev
or
.Sy src.shortRev
when
.Sy src
is a flake input or fetched source, otherwise
.Ql unknown .
.El
.Ss The cleanSourceWith pitfall
.Sy lib.cleanSourceWith
strips git metadata from
.Sy src ,
so
.Sy src.rev
disappears.
In that case the default
.Sy commit
will be
.Ql unknown
\(em pass
.Sy commit
explicitly:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
buildGoApplication {
  src = lib.cleanSourceWith {
    src = self;
    filter = path: type:
      lib.hasSuffix ".go" path || baseNameOf path == "go.mod";
  };
  commit = self.shortRev or self.dirtyShortRev or "unknown";
  # ...
}
.Ed
.Sh EXAMPLES
A minimal flake-based application:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
buildGoApplication {
  pname = "myapp";
  version = "0.1";
  src = ./.;
  modules = ./gomod2nix.toml;
}
.Ed
.Pp
Cross-compilation works through the standard nixpkgs channels: set
.Sy GOOS
and
.Sy GOARCH
in
.Sy env
or use a cross-compiling
.Va pkgs
attribute.
The build hooks distinguish
.Sy nativeBuildInputs Pq host
from
.Sy buildInputs Pq target
following nixpkgs conventions.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr gomod2nix-getting-started 7
.Pp
Markdown reference:
.Pa docs/nix-reference.md
in the gomod2nix source tree (covers
.Sy mkGoEnv
as well).
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
originated in
.Lk https://github.com/nix-community/gomod2nix .
This man page was added by the
.Lk https://github.com/amarbel-llc/gomod2nix
fork.
